In the first part of the exercise, we
implemented Newton's method for finding
the square root of a number by
designing several functions to implement
the algorithm.
In this part of the exercise I'm gonna
demonstrate how to combine those functions
into one
nested function to make the definition of
the
algorithm easier to understand and easier
to maintain.
What we wanna do is only add those
functions that are only applied to finding
a
square root to the definition of the
function,
the general function for finding a square
root.
In other words, the average function, we
could use it in other
situations, so we're not going to nest it,
or the square function either.
So let's get started.
Our main function is square root, and it's
parameter is a number.
Then, the first nested function we're
going to define
is closeEnough, and it's only parameter
will be guess.
The reason for that is, is that number now
is available
to the closeEnough function because
closeEnough is defined inside
of square root, and we take advantage of
lexical scoping
to only have to pass one parameter to the
function.
And then we'll write out the definition
for closeEnough right here.
After closeEnough, then we define improve.
And it also only requires one parameter,
cause it has
access to number within the environment of
the square root function.
And then finally we define square root
helper, also with just one parameter.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
We will finish up the definition right
here.
Here if the guess is not good enough we
recursively call square root helper with
an improved guess.
And then finally, to kick it all off,
we call square root helper with the
argument 1.0.
Print square root nine to start with.
Save it again, come back to our command
prompt and
there's the square root of nine using
Newton's method,
let's find another square root, we'll do
144.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
So there we see that by nesting functions
we get a more efficient and more
maintainable definition of how to
determine the
square root of a number using Newton's
method.
The functions that aren't general enough
to be used in other
instances, probably, close enough, improve
and square root helper, get defined
within square root so that someone looking
at the program doesn't
have to look far to figure out what these
functions do.
So with that, we wrap up this exercise.
And we wrap up this chapter on scoping and
nested functions.